src/docs/terraform/deployment.md, before:

# Terraform Deployment

Mission LZ also deploys the Hub and Spoke network architecture using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/).

To get started with Terraform on Azure check out their useful tutorial: <https://learn.hashicorp.com/collections/terraform/azure-get-started/>

Once you're comfortable with Terraform, ensure you have the Prerequisites below and follow the instructions to deploy and clean-up Mission LZ.

## Prerequisistes

* Current version of the [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
* Version 1.04 of the [Terraform CLI](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html)
* An Azure Subscription where you or an identity you manage has `Owner` [RBAC permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#owner)

## Login to Azure CLI

1. Log in using the Azure CLI

    ```BASH
    az login
    ```

   > *(Optional)* If you needed to deploy into another cloud such as Azure Government, set the cloud name before logging in:

     ```BASH
     az cloud set -n AzureUSGovernment
     az login
     ```

1. (OPTIONAL) Deploying with a Service Principal? This requires code changes, check out [Deploying with a Service Principal](#Deploying-with-a-Service-Principal)

## Terraform init

Before provisioning any Azure resources with Terraform you must initialize a working directory.

Here's the docs on `terraform init`: <https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/init.html/>

1. Navigate to the directory in the repository that contains the MissionLZ Terraform module:

    ```bash
    cd src/terraform/mlz
    ```

1. Execute `terraform init`

    ```bash
    terraform init
    ```

## Terrafrom apply

After intializing the directory, use `terraform apply` to provision the resources described in `mlz/main.tf` and its referenced modules at `mlz/modules/*`.

Here's the docs on `terraform apply`: <https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/apply.html>

When you run `terraform apply`, by default, Terraform will inspect the state of your environment to determine what resource creation, modification, or deletion needs to occur as if you invoked a `terraform plan` and then prompt you for your approval before taking action.

Here's the docs on `terraform plan`: <https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/plan.html>

1. From the directory in which you executed `terraform init` execute `terraform apply`:

    ```bash
    terraform apply
    ```

1. When prompted for your approval to create, modify, or destroy resources, supply `yes`:

    ```plaintext
    Do you want to perform these actions?
      Terraform will perform the actions described above.
      Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

    Enter a value: yes
    ```

This command will deploy all of the resources that make up Mission LZ and could take up to 45 minutes.

## Terraform destroy

Once you're happy with the deployment output and want to modify Mission LZ or just want to tear it down to save on costs, you can use `terraform destroy`.

Here's the docs on `terraform destroy`: <https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/destroy.html>

1. From the directoy in which you executed `terraform init` and `terraform apply` execute `terraform destroy`:

    ```bash
    terraform destroy
    ```

This command will attempt to remove all the resources that were deployed by `terraform apply` and could take up to 45 minutes.

## Deploying with a Service Principal

This is not required, in fact, the current Terraform modules are written as if you're executing them as a user.

But, if you're using a Service Principal to deploy Azure resources with Terraform check out this doc: <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_client_secret/>

Using a Service Principal will require updating the resource providers for `mlz/main.tf`, also described in that doc: <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_client_secret#configuring-the-service-principal-in-terraform/>:

```terraform
variable "client_secret" {
}

terraform {
  required_providers {
    azurerm = {
      ...
    }
  }
}

provider "azurerm" {
  features {}

  subscription_id = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
  client_id       = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
  client_secret   = var.client_secret
  tenant_id       = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
}
```

## Terraform Providers

The development container definition downloads the required Terraform plugin providers during the container build so that the container can be transported to an air-gapped network for use. The container also sets the `TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_DIR` environment variable, which Terraform uses as the search location for locally installed providers. If you are not using the container to deploy or if the `TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_DIR` environment variable is not set, Terraform will automatically attempt to download the provider from the internet when you execute the `terraform init` command.

See the development container [README](/.devcontainer/README.md) for more details on building and running the container.

## Helpful Links

For more endpoint mappings between AzureCloud and AzureUsGovernment: <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-government/compare-azure-government-global-azure#guidance-for-developers/>

Commit message:

include docs for deploying to other clouds

src/docs/terraform/deployment.md, after:

# Terraform Deployment

Mission LZ also deploys the Hub and Spoke network architecture using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/).

To get started with Terraform on Azure check out their useful tutorial: <https://learn.hashicorp.com/collections/terraform/azure-get-started/>

Once you're comfortable with Terraform, ensure you have the Prerequisites below and follow the instructions to deploy and clean-up Mission LZ.

## Prerequisistes

* Current version of the [Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
* Version 1.04 of the [Terraform CLI](https://www.terraform.io/downloads.html)
* An Azure Subscription where you or an identity you manage has `Owner` [RBAC permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#owner)

## Login to Azure CLI

1. Log in using the Azure CLI

    ```BASH
    az login
    ```

   > *(Optional)* If you needed to deploy into another cloud such as Azure Government, set the cloud name before logging in:

     ```BASH
     az cloud set -n AzureUSGovernment
     az login
     ```

1. (OPTIONAL) Deploying to a Cloud other than Azure Commercial? This requires updating the `azurerm` provider block `environment` and `metadata_host` values. Checkout the [Deploying to Other Clouds](#Deploying-to-Other-Clouds) documentation.

1. (OPTIONAL) Deploying with a Service Principal? This requires updating the `azurerm` provider block. Check out the [Deploying with a Service Principal](#Deploying-with-a-Service-Principal) documentation.

## Terraform init

Before provisioning any Azure resources with Terraform you must initialize a working directory.

Here's the docs on `terraform init`: <https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/init.html/>

1. Navigate to the directory in the repository that contains the MissionLZ Terraform module:

    ```bash
    cd src/terraform/mlz
    ```

1. Execute `terraform init`

    ```bash
    terraform init
    ```

## Terrafrom apply

After intializing the directory, use `terraform apply` to provision the resources described in `mlz/main.tf` and its referenced modules at `mlz/modules/*`.

Here's the docs on `terraform apply`: <https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/apply.html>

When you run `terraform apply`, by default, Terraform will inspect the state of your environment to determine what resource creation, modification, or deletion needs to occur as if you invoked a `terraform plan` and then prompt you for your approval before taking action.

Here's the docs on `terraform plan`: <https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/plan.html>

1. From the directory in which you executed `terraform init` execute `terraform apply`:

    ```bash
    terraform apply
    ```

1. When prompted for your approval to create, modify, or destroy resources, supply `yes`:

    ```plaintext
    Do you want to perform these actions?
      Terraform will perform the actions described above.
      Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

    Enter a value: yes
    ```

This command will deploy all of the resources that make up Mission LZ and could take up to 45 minutes.

## Terraform destroy

Once you're happy with the deployment output and want to modify Mission LZ or just want to tear it down to save on costs, you can use `terraform destroy`.

Here's the docs on `terraform destroy`: <https://www.terraform.io/docs/cli/commands/destroy.html>

1. From the directoy in which you executed `terraform init` and `terraform apply` execute `terraform destroy`:

    ```bash
    terraform destroy
    ```

This command will attempt to remove all the resources that were deployed by `terraform apply` and could take up to 45 minutes.

## Deploying with a Service Principal

This is not required, in fact, the current Terraform modules are written as if you're executing them as a user.

But, if you're using a Service Principal to deploy Azure resources with Terraform check out this doc: <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_client_secret/>

Using a Service Principal will require updating the resource providers for `mlz/main.tf`, also described in that doc: <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_client_secret#configuring-the-service-principal-in-terraform/>:

```terraform
variable "client_secret" {
}

terraform {
  required_providers {
    azurerm = {
      ...
    }
  }
}

provider "azurerm" {
  features {}

  subscription_id = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
  client_id       = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
  client_secret   = var.client_secret
  tenant_id       = "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000"
}
```

## Terraform Providers

The development container definition downloads the required Terraform plugin providers during the container build so that the container can be transported to an air-gapped network for use. The container also sets the `TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_DIR` environment variable, which Terraform uses as the search location for locally installed providers. If you are not using the container to deploy or if the `TF_PLUGIN_CACHE_DIR` environment variable is not set, Terraform will automatically attempt to download the provider from the internet when you execute the `terraform init` command.

See the development container [README](/.devcontainer/README.md) for more details on building and running the container.

## Deploying to Other Clouds

The `azurerm` Terraform provider provides a mechanism for changing the Azure cloud in which to deploy Terraform modules.

When specifying your provider, pass in the correct value for `environment` and `metadata_host` for the cloud you're targeting:

```terraform
provider "azurerm" {
  features {}
  
  environment     = var.tf_environment # e.g. 'public' or 'usgovernment'
  metadata_host   = var.mlz_metadatahost # e.g. 'management.azure.com' or 'management.usgovcloudapi.net'
}
```

For the supported `environment` values, see this doc: <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs#environment/>

For the supported `metadata_host` values, see this doc: <https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs#metadata_host/>

For more endpoint mappings between AzureCloud and AzureUsGovernment: <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-government/compare-azure-government-global-azure#guidance-for-developers/>
